README.md, before:

# Splunk Add-on for Perforce
This add-on will get perforce log files enabling users to have a better overview of the system by analysing provided metrics.

## Features
* Get audit and performance data from Perforce Helix Core Server to build metrics
* Ingested data will have different sourcetypes depending on the event type as depicted in table below
* CIM compliance to ease integration with other services (best effort)

| **Eventtype**  | **Sourcetype**              | **Description**                                                           |
|----------------|-----------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `4`,`5`        | `hx:errors`                 | Error events (errors-failed, errors-fatal)                                |
| `6`            | `hx:audit`                  | Audit events (p4 sync, p4 archive, etc)                                   |
| `7`            | `hx:track:usage`            | Performance usage tracking                                                |
| `8`            | `hx:track:rpc`              | Network performance tracking (incl. send/receive errors and duplex stats) |
| `9`            | `hx:track:db`               | Database performance tracking (incl. lock times, peek)                    |
| `10`           | `hx:user`                   | User events; one record every time a user runs p4 logappend               |
| `11`           | `hx:triggers`               | Trigger events                                                            |
| `12`           | `hx:events`                 | Server events (startup, shutdown, checkpoint, journal rotation, etc.)     |
| `14`           | `hx:track:networkestimates` | Network estimates                                                         |
| `15`           | `hx:integrity`              | Major events that occur during replica integrity checking                 |
| `16`           | `hx:auth`                   | Login events                                                              |
| `17`           | `hx:route`                  | Log the full network route of authenticated client connections            |


## Getting Started
### Requirements
* Structured server logs enabled on Helix Core Server. In particular, make sure the server is recording information into the following comma separated value files
    * `audit.csv`
    * `auth.csv`
    * `errors.csv`
    * `events.csv`
    * `integrity.csv`
    * `route.csv`
    * `track.csv`
    * `triggers.csv`
    * `user.csv`
* Splunk Universal or Heavy Forwarder installed and [properly configured](https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Forwarder/8.2.2/Forwarder/Installanixuniversalforwarder#After_you_install:_Start_and_configure_the_universal_forwarder)

### Installation
Splunk System Administrators are requested to:
* Configure a new index (e.g. `helix`) which will be populated with events coming from the Helix Core Server
* Install this app in the Universal / Heavy Forwarder
* Configure the forwarder `inputs.conf`
    * make sure monitored log files exist in your Helix Core Server
    * modify index name if different from `helix`
    * enable data input

### Usage
As soon as your data is indexed, build and enjoy your own analytics.

## Troubleshooting
Helix Core Server commands 

```bash
# Add P4AUDIT environment parameter at start
$ vi /etc/perforce/p4dctl.conf.d/master.conf 
    + P4AUDIT   =     ../logs/audit.csv
# Restart the whole server
$ p4dctl restart master
# Check current configuration
$ p4 configure show
# Perform login if p4 commands return nothing
$ p4 login
```

Check data is flowing in Splunk via SPL
`index=<YOUR_INDEX>` (e.g. `index=helix`)

## References
* [Structured server logs](https://www.perforce.com/perforce/doc.current/manuals/p4sag/Content/P4SAG/structure-logging-using.html)
* Restart perforce server via [p4dctl command](https://www.perforce.com/manuals/p4sag/Content/P4SAG/p4dctl.commands.html?Highlight=p4dctl)
* Describe the schema of structured log record types via command [p4 logschema](https://www.perforce.com/manuals/cmdref/Content/CmdRef/p4_logschema.html)
* [P4AUDIT variable](https://www.perforce.com/manuals/cmdref/Content/CmdRef/P4AUDIT.html)
* [Enable auditing](https://www.perforce.com/manuals/p4sag/Content/P4SAG/auditing-user-file-access.html)

## License
This project is licensed under [Apache-2.0](LICENSE)

Commit message:

Added Copyright notice in README

README.md, after:

# Splunk Add-on for Perforce
This add-on will get perforce log files enabling users to have a better overview of the system by analysing provided metrics.

## Features
* Get audit and performance data from Perforce Helix Core Server to build metrics
* Ingested data will have different sourcetypes depending on the event type as depicted in table below
* CIM compliance to ease integration with other services (best effort)

| **Eventtype**  | **Sourcetype**              | **Description**                                                           |
|----------------|-----------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `4`,`5`        | `hx:errors`                 | Error events (errors-failed, errors-fatal)                                |
| `6`            | `hx:audit`                  | Audit events (p4 sync, p4 archive, etc)                                   |
| `7`            | `hx:track:usage`            | Performance usage tracking                                                |
| `8`            | `hx:track:rpc`              | Network performance tracking (incl. send/receive errors and duplex stats) |
| `9`            | `hx:track:db`               | Database performance tracking (incl. lock times, peek)                    |
| `10`           | `hx:user`                   | User events; one record every time a user runs p4 logappend               |
| `11`           | `hx:triggers`               | Trigger events                                                            |
| `12`           | `hx:events`                 | Server events (startup, shutdown, checkpoint, journal rotation, etc.)     |
| `14`           | `hx:track:networkestimates` | Network estimates                                                         |
| `15`           | `hx:integrity`              | Major events that occur during replica integrity checking                 |
| `16`           | `hx:auth`                   | Login events                                                              |
| `17`           | `hx:route`                  | Log the full network route of authenticated client connections            |


## Getting Started
### Requirements
* Structured server logs enabled on Helix Core Server. In particular, make sure the server is recording information into the following comma separated value files
    * `audit.csv`
    * `auth.csv`
    * `errors.csv`
    * `events.csv`
    * `integrity.csv`
    * `route.csv`
    * `track.csv`
    * `triggers.csv`
    * `user.csv`
* Splunk Universal or Heavy Forwarder installed and [properly configured](https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Forwarder/8.2.2/Forwarder/Installanixuniversalforwarder#After_you_install:_Start_and_configure_the_universal_forwarder)

### Installation
Splunk System Administrators are requested to:
* Configure a new index (e.g. `helix`) which will be populated with events coming from the Helix Core Server
* Install this app in the Universal / Heavy Forwarder
* Configure the forwarder `inputs.conf`
    * make sure monitored log files exist in your Helix Core Server
    * modify index name if different from `helix`
    * enable data input

### Usage
As soon as your data is indexed, build and enjoy your own analytics.

## Troubleshooting
Helix Core Server commands 

```bash
# Add P4AUDIT environment parameter at start
$ vi /etc/perforce/p4dctl.conf.d/master.conf 
    + P4AUDIT   =     ../logs/audit.csv
# Restart the whole server
$ p4dctl restart master
# Check current configuration
$ p4 configure show
# Perform login if p4 commands return nothing
$ p4 login
```

Check data is flowing in Splunk via SPL
`index=<YOUR_INDEX>` (e.g. `index=helix`)

## References
* [Structured server logs](https://www.perforce.com/perforce/doc.current/manuals/p4sag/Content/P4SAG/structure-logging-using.html)
* Restart perforce server via [p4dctl command](https://www.perforce.com/manuals/p4sag/Content/P4SAG/p4dctl.commands.html?Highlight=p4dctl)
* Describe the schema of structured log record types via command [p4 logschema](https://www.perforce.com/manuals/cmdref/Content/CmdRef/p4_logschema.html)
* [P4AUDIT variable](https://www.perforce.com/manuals/cmdref/Content/CmdRef/P4AUDIT.html)
* [Enable auditing](https://www.perforce.com/manuals/p4sag/Content/P4SAG/auditing-user-file-access.html)

## License
Copyright 2022 Splunk Inc.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
